Hey guys, welcome back to the course.
Next concept up on the table is what's called an array.
Ok, now, an array, I'm not sure if you've ever heard of this term before
in just plain spoken English, but what it means is a series of pieces of information.
In programming, what it means is a series
of information that is all formatted the same.
What do I mean by that?
By formatted the same I mean it's a series of pieces of information like numbers,
like strings, or like variables, you don't mix the three together.
So what you would do in programming, and this is actually a goofy situation
where in Python you don't actually do it this way,
so we're just going to ignore Python right now,
but what you would do in other languages
is you would, remember, save everything,
you're essentially going to save anything as a variable.
So we would say our array variable equals, and then I can say, "array,"
this is going to make a little more sense to you in a second,
and this is in PHP, and then I could put
within the parentheses a series of numbers,
a series of words, or a series of variables.
Now, the idea here is, so I could say, one, two, actually it's a space,
one, two, three, four, five.
Now, the idea behind this is that being able to save information like that
saves you a lot of time in certain circumstances.
Let's say I was making a website that, I don't know, teaches horoscopes,
and I wanted in the website you to type in what your sign was.
Like I could type in I'm a Gemini, or a Libra, or whatever,
and it returns to you some information about that.
How exactly would you do that?
Let's say we wanted it to just return a bunch of adjectives about your sign.
The way that you would do that manually is you would have to tell it like,
if I had ten adjectives, I'd have to it something like, adjective 1 equals inspiring,
then I'd have to go all the way down, then I'd have to change these up.
Dramatic, happy, cautious, you know, etc.
So I would have to save all of these adjectives by themselves,
and then I'd have to have a way to associate those with, let's say, Gemini,
so I'd have to say, well, the Gemini variable,
these are the things that are important to it,
and then I'd have to go like, adjective 1, plus adjective 2, plus,
it basically just makes it way to tedious, and so with an array instead,
I could just say, and this is, again, PHP, it's a goofy way of doing it,
but I could say array, and then followed by equals, and instead of doing
that nonsense I just did above, I could actually
just type it out as the actual words,
inspiring, dramatic, and I don't even have to put spaces in it,
happy, inspiring. Alternatively, I can follow the same syntax,
often in languages there's multiple ways of doing the exact same thing.
Why? Again, because they didn't plan this from the very beginning,
they came up with solutions as they needed it,
equals same thing we did above.
And so what this is going to do is that, now, as opposed to if I just said,
Gemini equals sleepy, anytime I'd ask the computer to come back to me
and say what is Gemini, it would say "sleepy,"
but if I wanted to have more information on it,
I would have to use an array.
So this way, what it could say is, well, there's actually ten different
individual pieces of information that are specific to being a Gemini.
And guys, the syntax up here may or may not be completely right,
I think in PHP you're fine without putting quotations, I might be wrong,
you might actually have to put these in quotations, but it doesn't really matter.
I'll put these up so we know it's a string.
Ok, so then what I would have to do, let's say if someone
was typing in what I am, and they said Gemini, I could make it say,
and we'll cover this later when we get to conditionals,
you could say, if input is equal to Gemini,
then you can tell it to display the array, so you can say print Gemini.
So essentially what that would say is,
if the person types in the word Gemini, I spell it right,
then spit back at them the value of Gemini,
which could be multiple things in an array.
Ok, last thing we need to know about arrays,
and, again, guys, this is all purely conceptual, such that
when you get into actual programming,
you don't run into, this isn't brand new to you.
The other thing you need to understand about arrays is what's called a pointer.
When your computer saves information as an array, because it's just
a sequence of pieces of information, it saves it in memory,
and so every time I ask it to display something, or print,
or recall something out of that group, it's going to grab all of them,
and what if I, for instance, wanted to just grab one thing in that array?
What if I wanted to say Geminis are one of these, some random one of these?
Well, the way you would have to handle that is what's called a pointer.
Do we need to understand how to use pointers right now?
No. What a pointer is is essentially, it's like a theoretical kind of arrow
inside of the array that just says what position each item is in.
So it could be the case that inspiring is in the first position,
dramatic is in the second, and happy is in the third,
or, depending on whether or not you've run a command on this array previously,
and the code might have changed this up, such that
this is the first position, this is the second, this is the third, this is the forth,
with a pointer, that's how we know that.
So if we know the pointer is on happy, this is just, again, a very abstract term,
that's how we know happy is number one,
followed by two, followed by the next one,
four, five, six, and then it goes in a loop.
Again, don't worry about that one entirely too much, you will hear about that,
and it will make more sense when you're actually programming something,
or in an actual situation using it.
Ok, so arrays. What are they?
They are just series of pieces of information saved in one big bundle
to save you time from basically making a variable
for every single piece of information.
We only did four things, but what if I wanted to associate a zip code
with every single phone number in that area code?
Well, then we have thousands, and thousands, and thousands,
I'm not going to make a variable for every single one and then
type out the name of every single variable every single time.
It's much easier to just make one of these and it's one big storage container.
Then, depending on which one I want to
pull out, if I didn't want to just display all of them,
maybe I want to display the second one and not the first one,
well, you have to do that by changing what is called a pointer,
and in your computer's memory, as it's running through the code,
it will have in its head essentially which of these items
is going to come out in the first position, if it were just generically called.
Hopefully, that makes sense.
Explaining this in a non-technical way is very, very difficult, keep in mind.
Questions or concerns, just post in the Q&A,
otherwise we're going to move on to the next concept.